How to import a car from Switzerland to France

Condition: 
A Ford Fiesta was bought in Italy in 2006, imported to Switzerland, and then 
bought by me. I need to import it from Switzerland to France. 
The VAT was already paid in Italy. There is no plate on the car. Therefore, I 
need to obtain a temporary licence plate.


** Things that could be done in parallel:

1) Go to Douane Suisse at Rue de Genève, 01210 Ferney-Voltaire to obtain EUR1 
form. The EUR1 form must be filled in by the previous owner of the car. 
Douane France is across the street. 

You could take Y-bus from CERN and get off at "Grand-Saconnex-Douane". 
The price of ticket is 3.5 CHF or 3.00 euros. It takes about 25 mins from 
CERN to this stop.
In the direction (CERN->Grand-Saconnex-Douane), the stop is next to Douane 
France.
In the direction (Ferney -> CERN), the stop is next to Douane Suisse.

Go to Douane France and ask for the necessary documents to import a car to 
France.


2) Go to Sous-Préfecture de Gex to obtain the temporary license plate. 
26 rue Charles Harent, Gex - Tel : +33 450 41 51 51

Horaires d’ouverture :

Lundi de 8h45 à 11h45 
Mardi de 8h45 à 11h45 
Jeudi de 8h45 à 11h45 et de 13h30 à 16h00 
Vendredi de 9h00 à 14h00

NOTE!!! They may be closed on Monday if there is a national holiday on 
Tuesday and closed on Friday if there is a national holiday on Thursday. 
They are closed on Wednesdays.

You could take Y-bus from CERN and get off at the last stop 
"Ferney-Voltaire-Mairie", which costs 3 euros (3.5 CHF) and 37 minutes. 
Then, take F-bus from "Ferney-Voltaire-Mairie" to "Gex-Poste", which costs 
1.2 euros (1.4 CHF) and 25 minutes.

You need to bring necessary documents and the lady at the door will give you 
a ticket with a number to be called. 
You need to fill in the form 
"DEMANDE DE CERTIFICAT D'IMMATRICULATION D'UN VEHICULE'.
The information includes mostly your name, date of birth, address, telephone 
numbers, make of car and the color (Clair light or Fonce dark).

You need to bring your ID, proof of domicile (EDF bill or rent bill), 
original registration from Switzerland (Livret de Circulation), contract of 
sales, and Titre de Sejour Special.

Then, you have to pay 47 euros and they will pass you a certificate to obtain 
a temporary license plate.

3) The temporary license plate will be RED!!!
!!! NEVER buy the plates from the key shops inside Val Thoiry.

**** 

4) Get 846A form
Once I get a temporary license plate, I could drive my car to Douane Suisse 
and Douane France. I am supposed to park my car at the parking lot of Douane 
France, but it's not easy to enter from the direction of Ferney --> Douane. 
Therefore, I park my car in the parking lot of a restaurant. 

Then, I need to submit the signed and filled EUR1 form to Douane Suisse. They 
will check your contract of sale, EUR1 form, Livret de Circulation, the 
certificate of temporary license plate. 
The fee is 50 CHF. Then, the officer put a stamp on EUR1 form and also return 
me the original copy, the receipt of the 50 CHF and a declared value of the 
car.

Now I go to Douane France and present all necessary documents: stamped EUR1 
form, ID, proof of domicile, contract of sale, Livret de Circulation, the 
certificate of temporary license plate, Titre de Sejour Special. 
NOTE!! They calculate VAT based on the current value of the car, not the sale 
price. I pay 364 euros because the current price of the car is 2600 euros.

They give me 846A form to be presented to Sous-Préfecture de Gex. They are 
supposed to check my car, but since my car is parked at the restaurant 
parking lot. They do no check at all. 

5) Control Technique Test

I went to Autosur close to Val Thoiry to perform control technique test:
http://controle-technique.autosur.com/9932-autosur-thoiry

The cost is 75 euros. It only took 15 mins and the check is very loose. 
But you need to make an appointment. 
My car passed the test. Then, Autosur gave me a form to present to 
Sous-Préfecture de Gex.
Serguei suggested one at Saint Genis, close to intersport.

http://www.controle-technique-saint-genis-pouilly.autosecurite.com/

6) Get the Carte Gris at Sous-Préfecture de Gex
Drive from Thoiry: D89B->D89A->1st Exit->2nd Exit->984C 
One could park at the parking lot next to shopping mall (close to Post office).

Bring a filled form of "DEMANDE DE CERTIFICAT D'IMMATRICULATION D'UN VEHICULE'", original car registration document, a proof of purchase, ID, proof of 
domicile, proof of European confirmty, 846A form, proof from control 
technique.

Then I pay 221.50 euros for the tax.

7) I stop at Point S car center in front of conforama in Saint Genis
 to get my plate. It costs 30 euros to install and buy the plate.
 

   









